MTM-58822 Prepares for Spring Security 6.0 in MS-SDK (#2617)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/application-enablement/cumulocity-1020-140-0-microservices-sdk-pre-spring-boot-3.md

---
date: 2024-10-31
title: Prepare to update Microservice SDK to Spring Boot 3  
change_type:
  - value: change-inv-3bw8e
    label: Announcement
product_area: Application enablement & solutions
component:
  - value: component-Sv2buFZ5l
    label: Microservice SDK
build_artifact:
  - value: tc-QHwMfWtBk7
    label: cumulocity
version: 10.20.140.0
ticket: MTM-58822
---

> This is a follow-up on a recent [announcement](https://cumulocity.com/docs/change-logs/?change-type=.change-type-announcement%2C.change-type-api-change#cumulocity-undefined-microservices-sdk-spring-boot3-announcement) about migrating Microservice SDK to Spring Boot 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a follow-up on a recent [announcement](https://cumulocity.com/docs/change-logs/?change-type=.change-type-announcement%2C.change-type-api-change#cumulocity-undefined-microservices-sdk-spring-boot3-announcement) about migrating the Microservice SDK to Spring Boot 3.
```

Author: Applied

> As a second step of this process, starting from version **10.20.140.0**, the Microservice SDK is now using Spring Security 5.8. This change enabled a migration preparing for Spring Security 6.0 to be performed in Microservie SDK following [this migration guide](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/5.8/migration/index.html). We recommend all users of Microservice SDK to also follow that guide when updating their applications using the updated version of SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a second step of this process, starting from version **10.20.140.0**, the Microservice SDK is now using Spring Security 5.8. This change enabled a migration preparing for Spring Security 6.0 to be performed in the Microservice SDK following [this migration guide](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/5.8/migration/index.html). We recommend all users of the Microservice SDK to also follow that guide when updating their applications using the updated version of the SDK.
```

Author: Applied

> Please notice, that following the changes in <code>MethodSecurityExpressionHandler</code> configuration [described here](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/5.8/migration/servlet/authorization.html#_use_a_custom_bean_instead_of_subclassing_defaultmethodsecurityexpressionhandler), the methods provided by <code>com.cumulocity.microservice.security.service.SecurityExpressionService</code>, that were previously configured using a custom <code>SecurityExpressionRoot</code> extension, are now available via an independent bean definition named <code>c8yAuthz</code>. This means that i.e. expression <code>isCurrentTenantManagement()</code> will no longer resolve and needs to be prefixed by the bean name instead <code>@c8yAuthz.isCurrentTenantManagement()</code>. This allows customers to easily add their own security expressions extensions, if needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that following the changes in the <code>MethodSecurityExpressionHandler</code> configuration [described here](https://docs.spring.io/spring-security/reference/5.8/migration/servlet/authorization.html#_use_a_custom_bean_instead_of_subclassing_defaultmethodsecurityexpressionhandler), the methods provided by <code>com.cumulocity.microservice.security.service.SecurityExpressionService</code> that were previously configured using a custom <code>SecurityExpressionRoot</code> extension, are now available via an independent bean definition named <code>c8yAuthz</code>. This means that, for example, the expression <code>isCurrentTenantManagement()</code> will no longer resolve and needs to be prefixed by the bean name instead <code>@c8yAuthz.isCurrentTenantManagement()</code>. This allows customers to easily add their own security expression extensions, if needed.
```

Author: Applied.
